- [Instructor] One of the most common forays
into asynchronous communications and messaging
is for interservice communications.
Often, you find yourself in a situation
where you just need to push a message
to a remote system to do work,
and you don't want a block on the downstream system
completing its tasks.
Now, while I'm just going to introduce them here,
I'm hoping that this will get you thinking
about the use cases before we do a deep dive.
Point to point messaging is one of the easiest ways
in a microservices architecture
to move to asynchronous messaging.
These calls can replace traditional restful calls
between services, where the response is not needed
or can be received in and out of band process.
In this model, there is a single producer
that creates a message and puts it onto the message broker.
There is also a single consumer
who responds or listens to the message
and does some action on it.
It is important to remember
that it is a send and forget model.
The producer creates the message,
dispatches it, and goes on.
As such, any kind of response is usually
another point-to-point message.
The publish and subscribe, or pub-sub for short,
is a different model for interservice communications.
Its use cases are more specific
in a microservices architecture,
but nonetheless equally valuable.
This actually becomes a very powerful pattern
in distributed computing, as we will discuss.
Once again, we usually have a single producer
who creates the message
and dispatches it to the message broker.
However, in this model, there is one or more subscribers
who listen for messages and act on their own accord.
The distinction here is you can have multiple consumers
of the same message,
which is why this becomes a little less common
in a microservices architecture,
as we don't often find ourselves broadcasting a message
to many different services in the exact same format.
Once again, however, it is a send and forget model
where the producer isn't waiting on any kind of response
before continuing its work.
In this model, there is also a concept
of a durable subscription.
In traditional pub-sub, if a subscriber isn't there,
it won't get the message.
However, if the subscriber is durable,
there is a guarantee that the message will be delivered
at some point once the subscriber is available again.
This is a specific registration process
that allows this durable subscription.
But it is very critical when messages must be acted on,
even if the processes have been terminated in the system.